# Twitch Auto Shoutout Bot
🤖 **A simple Twitch bot that automatically sends `!so @user` in chat after your stream has been live for a preset amount of time.**

For use with bots that have `!so` commands, essentially acts as an auto shoutout for services that don't have this functionality built in (e.g. StreamElements).

Much of the code (and like 100% of the installation instructions below) was used from [Timbot](https://github.com/roydejong/timbot)

## Features
* Monitors Twitch chat for users in the shout out list and shouts them out when they talk for the first time.
* Programmable delay, so the shout out happens later in your stream rather than at the very beginning.
* Bot commands for mods to add or remove streamers from the shout out list (!addso/!rmso).

## Installation and setup

### Prerequisites

This bot is built with Node.js. Install the latest LTS version from [the official website](https://nodejs.org/en/download).

### Installation

To set up the bot, clone it using `git`:

    git clone git@github.com:brofar/Twitch-Shoutout-Bot.git
    
Once installed, enter the directory and install the dependencies:

    cd Twitch-Shoutout-Bot
    npm install

### Configuration
 
To configure the bot, copy the included `.env.sample` to `.env` and enter or customize the values in the file. 

Configuration options explained:

|Key|Required?|Description|
|---|---------|-----------|
|`BOT_USERNAME`|☑|The username of your bot (can be either your own username, or you can create another Twitch account for your bot).|
|`BOT_OAUTH_TOKEN`|☑|Your bot token (explained below).|
|`CHANNEL_NAME`|☑|The Twitch channel the bot should join (i.e. your channel).|
|`BOT_CLIENT_ID`|☑|Client ID for your Twitch app, via developer portal (explained below).|
|`BOT_CLIENT_SECRET`|☑|Client Secret for your Twitch app, via developer portal (explained below).|
|`MIN_TO_WAIT_BEFORE_SHOUTOUT`|☑|How many minutes your stream should be live before the bot starts monitoring (for immediate shoutouts, enter 0).|
|`TWITCH_PREFIX`|☑|Prefix for the bot's commands.|

### Getting required tokens

Note that you will need to set up some external applications: 

#### Twitch application
To connect to the Twitch API, you will need to register a new application in the [Twitch Developers Console](https://dev.twitch.tv/console/apps) **as the user you've listed in `BOT_USERNAME`**.

You will need to grab the Client ID (`BOT_CLIENT_ID` in .env).
Then, create a new secret and copy that into `BOT_CLIENT_SECRET` in .env

#### Twitch OAuth token
To make things more complicated, all requests  to the Twitch API need to be authenticated with an OAuth grant generated by your own application.

To begin the authorization flow, you'll need to complete the authorization prompt yourself  **as the user you've listed in `BOT_USERNAME`**:
 
```
https://id.twitch.tv/oauth2/authorize?client_id=TWITCH_CLIENT_ID&response_type=token&redirect_uri=http://localhost
```

You can grab the `access_token` from the redirect URL in your browser, and store it as `BOT_OAUTH_TOKEN` in .env. 

### Starting the bot

Once the application has been configured, start it using `node` from the installation directory:

    node .